this area of jungle lies just on the
outskirts of Kathmandu the capital city
of Nepal and is home to a special troop
of rhesus macaques
[Music]
it's where they sleep at night but they
spend their days in very different
surroundings
welcome to Swayambhunath stupa a place
of worship for buddhists these macaques
are an integral part of temple life and
their presence here is entwined in
folklore they are said to have once been
headless fallen from the cut hair of
manjushri a religious figure associated
with the creation of the valley where
Katmandu sits this gives them a
spiritual significance and so each day
they have their breakfast delivered by
worshippers but even with these free
meals these cheeky monkeys will steal
anything else they can get their hands
on keep an eye on the red drinks can
this macaque won't be getting the sweet
soda he was expecting though the
primates film crew have filled it with
water a much healthier choice
[Music]
and this temple isn't just good for an
easy meal they've been given their very
own swimming pool there might be a lot
going on but there's one macaque you
won't want to miss have a look around
you can't get much closer than this
those strange looking lumps on his
throat are his cheek pouches where he
can store lots of food in this case
they're full of chickpeas
[Music]
with breakfast out of the way it's time
for the youngsters to burn off a bit of
energy check out these guys just above
you they're about to show you how they
let off some steam
[Music]
they might not be the most elegant
divers but when you slow things down you
can really see how impressive these
leaps are look further down the pool to
see how much fun they're having
[Music]
as well as keen dying on us they're also
quite the aqueducts
taking advantage of the strings of
prayer flags that crisscross the pool
[Music]
but with all that exercise it's soon
time to rest and refuel with a spot of
lunch
here rhesus macaques have the perfect
easy life all because they've learned to
live alongside people it's this ability
to adapt that has led them to become one
of the most successful primates in the
world
[Music]